the forces of binding metaphysical power
that unites all living things in the
universe of course that's just in Star
Wars there's nothing like that in the
real world that people could use to
levitate objects or influence people's
decisions where is there I'm rusty
warden I'm kind of obsessed with
figuring out how I can attain real
superpowers powers like the ones we see
in sci-fi films and read about in comic
books in past episodes I've explained
how to get an Iron Man exoskeleton and
he'll like Wolverine in this episode I
want to find a real world equivalent of
the force Darth Vader and obi-wan Kenobi
talk about the force is something that's
all around us that's ever-present they
can sense changes to it use it as a form
of telekinesis or to manipulate
someone's mind if we're looking for a
real-world equivalent of the force in
our own universe we should start by
looking at the four fundamental forces
these are gravity electromagnetism the
strong force and the weak force gravity
is the force that attracts physical
bodies to one another the strong force
is what binds protons and neutrons
inside the nucleus of an atom the weak
force deals with radioactivity and
subatomic particles electromagnetism is
the interaction between electrically
charged particles and magnetic fields if
I were looking for a force in our
universe that most resembled the force
in the Star Wars universe it would be
electromagnetism it's stronger than
gravity and has a longer range than
either the strong force or the weak
force we're surrounded by
electromagnetism and it affects all
matter with an electrical charge which
is all life but even if electromagnetism
is all around us can we use it to sense
our surroundings can we sense a great
disturbance in the force like obi-wan
Ken or since the force in another person
the way Darth Vader does well sharks can
they have an organ called the ampullae
of Lorenzini this organ allows them to
detect the electromagnetic fields of the
objects around them they can sense great
disturbances like a ship with a large
magnetic field moving through the water
or small ones like a fish that's about
to become
but anyone that's ever read a comic book
feature in magneto knows that magnetic
manipulation only works on metal objects
we couldn't use electromagnetic fields
to throttle the windpipe of an insolent
subordinate the way Darth Vader does
right wrong all objects can be
influenced by magnetic fields metal
objects are just more susceptible to
them if something like a human being is
less susceptible to magnetic fields that
simply means we need a stronger magnetic
field in order to manipulate it if you
have a strong enough field you can
levitate a living organism like the Frog
in this video that's being held in
midair by a high field magnet
electromagnetic fields can also affect
people mentally if you direct magnetic
fields at different areas of the brain
you get all sorts of responses they can
be used to completely pacify a subject
so that nothing at all bothers them such
as two suspicious droids passing through
a stormtrooper checkpoint they can be
used to make someone hallucinate like
hearing a bunch of rebels on the other
side of the hangar and they can even be
used to alter someone's sense of
morality so it may seem okay to go over
to the dark side so the force is with us
we just have to learn how to manipulate
it for that check out the future episode
of science friction that takes on
Magneto thanks for watching be sure to
subscribe and check out some of the
other episodes of science friction that
tell you how to fly turn invisible and
freeze time and as always let me know
what superpower you want